# AcExSy

## ABSTRACT
Acronyms are an essential part of most languages and make it possible to merge a set of words into just a few letters. De- spite their practicality in saving space in text, they also come with the disadvantage of losing context if not adequately pre- sented. For example, when the exact meaning of an acronym is not known to the reader or associated with the wrong expansion. This type of ambiguity might happen when the expansion of an acronym is not exactly stated in the docu- ment. This is known as an out-expansion since the acronym’s expansion must come from outside the document. Acronym expander systems aim to mitigate this problem by matching an acronym to its proper expansion. There is considerable re- search on acronym expansion methods in English, but none of these methods have been extensively evaluated in the Dutch language. In this study, we experimented with various methods such as Doc2Vec, SBERT, and BERT for acronym ex- pansion on a human-annotated Dutch data set. We used the AcX acronym expander system to evaluate these methods and mainly focused on out-expansion acronyms. The results show that the current methods available within the AcX sys- tem are suitable for acronym expansion in Dutch and that SBERT offers a slight improvement over the initial Doc2Vec and CCV methods. The largest multilingual SBERT model that we evaluated, "paraphrase-multilingual-mpnet-base-v2", yielded an F1 score of 47,95%. This was an improvement of 0,83% compared to the second-best model, which uses Doc2Vec.
Keywords: Acronym, Expansion, Extraction, Dutch BERT, Multilingual SBERT
